.TH PFC.PCAP 1 "" "pfc-0.1" ""
.SH NAME
pfc.pcap \- Any Piffle program using the pcap.c boilerplate
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B \fIpfc.pcap\fR
.RB [\fIOPTIONS\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
This manual page applies to any Piffle program that has been compiled
with the -Bpcap.c option.
.SH OPTIONS
If no input device or file is specified, the program will try to read
from the standard network device. If no output file is specified, and
-v is not specified, the program will most likely produce no output at
all, which is probably not what you want.
.TP
--help or -h

Show a help text.
.TP
--device=<dev> or -d <dev>

Use <dev> as monitoring device. The device notation is the same as for
tcpdump, so you can use tcpdump -D to get a list of valid devices.
.TP
--input=<file> or -f <file>

Read the input from capture file <file>. (Use - for stdin.)
.TP
--output=<file> or -o <file>

Write the output packets to file <file>. The resulting file is a
tcpdump-compatible capture file. (Use - for stdout.)
.TP
--filter=<exp> or -F <exp>

Tell the the pcap library to compile the expression <exp> into a
Berkeley Packet Filter and apply it to incoming packets before feeding
them to the Piffle program. For instance, you can use -Ftcp if you
want to select only TCP packets. The syntax for <exp> is described in
the tcpdump(8) man page.
.TP
-v or --verbose

Be more verbose during monitoring.
.SH "RETURN VALUES"
The program will print error messages to stderr, and return the
following error codes:
.TP 
0
Normal exit, no problems.
.TP
1
Problem parsing command line.
.TP
2
Problem opening file or device.
.TP
3
Problem with a pcap library call.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.B pfc(1), pcap(3), tcpdump(8)
.SH BUGS
Please report to the author.
.SH AUTHOR
Jaap Weel <weel@ugcs.caltech.edu>

